RHDEVDOCS-6126 Document how to create aggregated cluster roles (#81594)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-creating-user-defined-cluster-roles-and-configuring-user-defined-permissions-for-application-controller.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/customizing-permissions-by-creating-aggregated-cluster-roles.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-creating-user-defined-cluster-roles-and-configuring-user-defined-permissions-for-application-controller_{context}"]
= Creating user-defined cluster roles and configuring user-defined permissions for Application Controller

> As a cluster administrator, to add user-defined permissions to your aggregated cluster role, you must create one or more user-defined cluster roles and configure user-defined permissions for Argo CD Application Controller of a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add user-defined permissions to your aggregated cluster role by creating one or more user-defined cluster roles then configure the user-defined permissions for the Argo CD Application Controller component of a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance.
```
I see "as a cluster administrator" throughout this PR where it isn't needed; this should be simply listed as is a prereq.

Author: I see no harm in stating the audience/persona of the content clearly at the start of the document.
To keep it consistent with what we already have in the GitOps docs, I prefer to retain this info as is.

.Prerequisites

> * You have enabled the creation of aggregated cluster roles for the Argo CD Application Controller component of a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You enabled the creation of aggregated cluster roles for the Argo CD Application Controller component of a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance.
```
past-perfect tense rarely needed; just extra words, really

* You have the following default cluster roles that are created and managed by the {gitops-title} Operator:
+

> ** `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller` aggregated cluster role

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: The phrase "aggregate cluster role" that isn't included in the backtick looks out of place as you have followed it for a single bullet point. I feel we should either use a similar template for the remaining bullets or improve the existing bullet.

Author: Sorted the conversation with @Dhruv-Soni11. Retaining the content as is.

    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: argocd
    argocd/aggregate-to-admin: 'true'
rules: # <3>
  - verbs:
      - '*'
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - namespaces
      - persistentvolumeclaims
      - persistentvolumes
      - configmaps
  - verbs:
      - '*'
    apiGroups:
      - compliance.openshift.io
    resources:
      - scansettingbindings
----
<1> The name of the user-defined cluster role.
<2> The labels match the predefined list of an existing `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` cluster role.
<3> The user-defined permissions that are to be added into the aggregated cluster role through the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` cluster role.
+
[TIP]
====
Alternatively, you can use the web console to create a user-defined cluster role from the *Administrator* perspective. You can go to *User Management* -> *Roles* -> *Create Role*, use the preceding YAML template to add permissions, and click *Create*.
====
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/user-application-controller created
----
+
A user-defined cluster role is created. 

> . Verify that the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` cluster role inherits permissions from the user-defined cluster role, by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` cluster role inherits permissions from the user-defined cluster role by running the following command:
```

Author: Addressed

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get ClusterRole/<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin -o yaml

Reviewer: need a "where" sequence for user-replaceable values

Author: Addressed

      {"apiVersion":"argoproj.io/v1beta1","kind":"ArgoCD","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"example","namespace":"spring-petclinic"},"spec":{"aggregatedClusterRoles":true}}
  creationTimestamp: "2024-08-14T09:59:15Z"
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: spring-petclinic
    app.kubernetes.io/name: example
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: argocd
    argocd/aggregate-to-controller: "true"
  name: example-spring-petclinic-argocd-application-controller-admin
  resourceVersion: "79202"
  uid: e2d35b6f-0832-4993-8b24-915a725454f9
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - namespaces
  - persistentvolumeclaims
  - persistentvolumes
  - configmaps
  verbs:
  - '*'
- apiGroups:
  - compliance.openshift.io
  resources:
  - scansettingbindings
  verbs:
  - '*'
----
+
[TIP]
====
Alternatively, you can use the {OCP} web console to verify from the *Administrator* perspective. You can go to *User Management* -> *Roles*, use the *Filter* option, select *Cluster-wide Roles*, and search for the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` cluster role. You have to open the cluster role to check the details and configurations.
====

> . Verify that the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller` aggregated cluster role inherits permissions from the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` and `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-view` cluster roles, by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller` aggregated cluster role inherits permissions from the `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-admin` and `<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller-view` cluster roles by running the following command:
```

Author: Addressed

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get ClusterRole/<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-application-controller -o yaml

Reviewer: need a "where" sequence for the user-replaceable values

Author: Addressed
